[Music]
a
cia agent only known as the protagonist
participates in an undercover operation
at a kiev opera house
his life is saved by a masked soldier
with a red trinket
who unfires a bullet through a gunman
after seizing an artifact
the protagonist is captured by
mercenaries he endures torture before
consuming cyanide
he awakens to learn the cyanide was a
test of loyalty
his team has been killed and the
artifact lost
the protagonist is recruited by an
organization called
tenet a scientist shows him bullets with
inverted entropy
in which they move backwards through
time she believes they are manufactured
in the future
and a weapon exists that can wipe out
the past aided by a contact named
neil the protagonist traces the bullets
to arms dealer priya singh
in mumbai he discovers she is a member
of tenet
her cartridges were purchased and
inverted by russian oligarch
andre sator the protagonist approaches
sator's estranged wife
cat an art appraiser who authenticated a
goya drawing forged by a man named
arappo
which sator purchased from him saitor
uses the drawing to blackmail her
and keep her under control the
protagonist plots to steal the drawing
with neil
from a facility at the oslo airport
there they find a machine
a turnstile and fend off two masked men
priya explains the turnstile can invert
the entropy of objects
and people and the masked men were the
same person
in italy cat introduces the protagonist
to sator
but learned the drawing is intact the
three go boating
where cat attempts to drown saitor but
the protagonist saves him
he offers to help saito retrieve a case
which he says contains plutonium
in tallinn estonia the protagonist and
neal
ambush a convoy and steal the case which
contains the artifact
lost in kiev they are ambushed by an
inverted saitor
who holds cat hostage the protagonist
gives sator an empty case
and he retreats the protagonist saves
cat
but is captured and taken to saitor's
warehouse which has an inversion
turnstile
the inverted sator shoots cat with an
inverted round
while the normal sator demands the
location of the artifact
the protagonist gives him false
information tenet operatives
led by ives rescues the protagonist
while sator escapes
the group take cat through saitor's
turnstile to invert her
reversing the effect of the round the
protagonist returns to the ambush site
and chases sator
his vehicle is overturned and set on
fire the protagonist
is saved neil reveals he is a member of
tenet
the protagonist and neil travel back in
time to the airport in oslo
the protagonist fights his past self and
enters the turnstile and reverts
followed by neil and cat priya tells
them
artifacts are part of an algorithm which
sator is assembling
capable of catastrophically inverting
entropy
cat reveals sator is dying from
pancreatic cancer
he will trigger the algorithm believing
the world should die with him
cat believes sator will kill himself
during their vacation the protagonist
neil cat and the tenant forces invert
back to that day
so cat can delay sator's death while
tenet secures the algorithm
tenet tracks the algorithm to sator's
hometown in northern siberia
in a temporal pincer movement red team
troops move forward in time
while the blue team troops move backward
the protagonist and ives are aided by a
masked corpse of a blue team
trooper with a red trinket on his
backpack after seeing him dying in
reverse
in vietnam cat boards sator's yacht and
kills him
as the protagonist and ives secure the
algorithm the protagonist
neil and ives break up the algorithm and
part ways
the protagonist notices the trinket on
neil's rucksack
neil reveals he was recruited by the
protagonist in the future
and this mission is the end of a long
friendship priya attempts to have cat
assassinated
but is killed by the protagonist who
reveals he is the mastermind
behind tenet